on paper the 8bit do ultimate Mobile
gaming controller seems to have pretty
much everything going for it a refined
dpad and shoulder buttons a metal
reinforced joystick with hall effect
sensors and software adjustments for
better Precision hall effect triggers
with the same adjustments so that you
can either have them activate when you
press them deeply or as more of a hair
trigger adjustability so you can fit
pretty much any device in it up to 170
mm in length and look at that they've
even got a couple of remappable pro
paddle buttons on the back even the feel
is really good reminding me more of like
a desktop game controller than of a
mobile one there's only one small
problem my
iPhone doesn't work in it there must be
a good reason for this maybe the fact
that it doesn't have a USBC cable
integrated for pass through charging and
instead relies on Bluetooth for the
connection whatever the reason is it is
compatible with Android only and that
support Android 99 or later but we do
get one thing in return an extremely
reasonable $50 price which is about $30
less than the comparable that we have
from gamster and about half the price of
a backbone one let's see what else comes
in the Box though before we go any
further the answer is not much you get a
nice little manual thank you very much
for that 8 bit do and a USB 8 Toc cable
W basically only that see you later all
right let's give this thing a shot shall
we oh after we tell you about our
sponsor drop drop's drop plus gr o ae1
headphones aim to improve on the
original Pair by moving the drivers
around with the goal of using the ears
natural structure for a more natural and
realistic sound field it also has a few
minor quality of life tweaks that take
it to the next level like a lighter
clamping force and a single-sided cable
the best thing is that it's now $100
less than the previous model so go click
the link in the video description to
learn how you can get your own pair of
drop's new drop plus gr 081
headphones joysticks feel pretty good
man actually surprisingly close to full
desktop joysticks these are just about
the size of they seem a little smaller
do we have an Xbox controller handy oh
man no it is the only difference between
This and like a full fat desktop
joystick is that the profile is ever so
slightly lower you can barely even make
it out on camera the shoulder buttons
have a really nice click hear that sound
but they're a little on the heavy side
and they actuate right at the very top
and then they Mash down like this far so
they end up feeling a little bit mushy
stick pushes feel about as standard as
they could possibly be so L3 and
R3 and then these paddles on the back
are something that as an older gamer
I've never really gotten used to using
but they feel fine I suppose yeah
everything else here seems pretty bog
standard are the face buttons the same
size as desktop it looks like they're a
little smaller yeah they're touch
smaller but the actual layout looks
about the same size so I sincerely doubt
that's going to bother anybody and they
feel good okay let's pair this is a bit
of a hassle aside from not being able to
charge your phone through your
controller while you're gaming just
having to pair it every time you want to
use it like not a huge deal Bluetooth is
relatively good these days but
I don't know is it worth paying an extra
30 bucks I'll leave that up to you guys
okay are we in pairing mode man there's
a little led oh that's the charging LED
I was expecting this to light up when I
did no no no that's the one okay H turbo
mode hold the button you would like to
assign turbo functionality to then press
the turbo button to enable turbo mode
Auto turbo mode built in 300 Milah
battery with 15 hours Play Time charging
time of 1 hour that's weird that
conflicts with my notes at say an hour
and a half but whatever the point is
that you'll be plugging it in for a
little while to charge and wow that is
it for instructions other than hey go to
8bit do.com to access the Ultimate
Software V2 mobile version what should
we start with this is Shredder's revenge
right one slight oversight with the
number of Android phones that have their
speaker firing out the bottom I'd love
to have seen like a little concave shape
in the housing here you know here here
here and here to kind of like route that
sound towards your ear holes I mean me
minor things maybe next version V2 V2
catch it in V2 remember how I said that
I thought that this joystick was going
to interfere a little bit with the ABX y
well it does you can see my thumbs like
right on it like if you have bigger
fingers and you're kind of coming in at
these from the top then I doubt it's
going to be a problem for you but I
can't say I'm a huge
fan
no but you know what is yes the fact
that absolutely nothing that's going
badly has anything to do with my
controller I just am this bad at the
game wow I'm dead already I really like
this obviously you're going to get a
little bit of extra latency when you're
connecting via Bluetooth rather than
with a wire but realistically for mobile
gaming that's something you're just
going to have to deal with most of the
time anyway and there was nothing else
about it that stood out to me as bad or
insufficient I'd say if I had to nitpick
I'm noticing that my device is lifting
up a little bit from just sort of you
know using it and moving around and kind
of getting into the game it's kind of
popping up a little bit on this side but
I doubt that it would manage to come up
enough that it would manage to slip free
and if it did it's pretty quick to pop
it back down uh let's try let's try
Crazy Taxi okay where's my backbone oh
dude the ergonomics compared to the
backbone night and
day like I don't think I even need to
tell you guys obviously the backbone's
going to fit in into your bag a little
bit better right it's got a 3 and half
mm Jack so you can plug your headphones
into it that's pretty cool it works with
the iPhone it's definitely got the 8bit
dough controller beat when it comes to
Features but in terms of the feel of the
joysticks in terms of the layout in
terms of the ergonomics it's not even
close I wish there was a device that had
everything both of them had uh maybe the
gamer is the middle ground here your
gamer yeah this has got way more desktop
like ergonomics same buttons all o
desktop grade
joysticks and it does have device oh no
it does not have device charging pass
through this one doesn't have it either
oh man yeah so you're stuck with
Bluetooth here too you can put a tablet
in this thing though and the game Star
is compatible with Apple devices it also
has Hall joysticks and triggers and it
has a gyro so you can use gyroscopic aim
assist that's a pretty good option but
it's not what we're making a video about
today enter your age I don't want to I
wasn't really a crazy taxi kid I didn't
have a game console at this time in my
life but what I can tell you guys even
though I'm not very good at this game is
that these joysticks are freaking
awesome I love them nice sensitivity no
overly large dead zones I am into this I
assure you that any deficiency in my
driving skill is everything to do with
my driving and nothing to do with these
joysticks ah small dead zones they do
have dead zones not zero dead zones but
not ridiculous dead zones either why
don't we try the 8bit do out Ultimate
Software this is the Ultimate Software
of ultimate Destiny well
um well what the software is supposed to
do is allow you to adjust the triggers
like I said before allow you to adjust
the sticks like I said before and also
adjust your button mapping which I
haven't said before but right now
because it's pre-release or beta or
something it appears to do nothing blah
blah blah blah blah okay oh oh do I need
to do all the like button mapping
nonsense oh wait if I don't have their
app is this even going to work how do
games like this not just support
connected controllers by
default it's kind of mind-blowing to me
that this isn't just plug andplay at
this point like I I get it if you're an
experienced mobile gamer you probably
have a software that you really like for
mapping this stuff and all that which is
which is cool but it should probably
just work at this point well that's
annoying hopefully that's something that
they can get sorted out
because this is very much not working
right now this is actually a really good
thing to talk about because regardless
of which one of these style controllers
you buy compatibility issues and
configuration can be a bit of a pain in
the butt to deal with in theory this is
every bit as good a gaming experience as
a dedicated handheld like a you know a
switch light or whatever but in practice
man it can be a bit of a chore you know
like okay here's an annoying thing oh
okay well I didn't put my phone in the
way that it wants me to put my phone in
so now I got to do this you know it's
just little things like
that okay yeah well on that note good
luck everybody subscribe to Short
Circuit